The website is made using HTML5, php and uses the sql databases.Also
uses javascript(ajax, jquery) extensively. If the user turns of 
javascript in the browser, website will not work. Also for the best
results, user has to use google chrome where it was tested thoroughly. 
Using firefox and Internet Explorer may not provide the desired results.

Dependencies: APACHE 2.0+, PHP5, MYSQL5.0
For best results, the above dependencies must be followed.

Directory Structure: Inside website folder, there are few folders named
css, images, html_includes, js, php_includes, Model, Books,
Compressed_books, logs.
Since there is no configuration file, these file names must not be 
changed at any point of time.
Books: All the books must be copied into this folder. The foldername 
is considered as the bookaddress and it must be same as the one, that
is given in the bookdetails table of database.
compressed_books: All the zip file must be copied into this folder.
Website searches for the bookname.zip in this folder only for downloading
css: All the styling files are in this folder
js: Javascript files are stored in this folder
images: All the images are stored in this folder
html_includes: There should be two files in this folder named header.html
and footer.html. These two files are included in all the view files(php files)
php_includes: There should be two files in this folder named db_conx.php and 
check_login_status.php.
	db_conx.php: This is the database connection file. Wherever there is an
				 sql call, this file is included. An object is created named
				 db_conx in this file and can be used after including the file
	check_login_status.php: This is used to check, if there is any user logged
							in currently. It checks for the session values and
							cookie values.
logs: A log file for each user is created in this folder. All the user actions
	  are stored in this file
Model: All the model files resides in this folder. Only from these model files
	   website connects to the database, gathers the data and displays it 
	   using view pages.
	 

Php Files: There are few php files in the folder named about.php, contact.php,
create_table.php, downloadDesktop.php, downloads.php, help.php, home.php, 
index.php, log.php, logout.php, search.php, signup.php.
create_table.php: This is just for creating the tables in the databases. 
Other than that, the website doesn't use this file anywhere
about.php: The link to this is available in the menubar of every page. 
The information about the creators and other important info is displayed 
here.
contact.php: The link to this is available in the menubar of every page.
Contact information is displayed here
downloadDesktop.php: Link is available in the menubar. Desktop application
software links must be placed here
downloads.php: This page enables user to download an audio file in the zip
format. File first checks for any metadata.dlf or bookmark.dlf files,
deletes them and then creates the  metadata.dlf and bookmark.dlf, then 
adds these files to the zip. The zip file will downloaded then.
metadata.dlf has all the information stored in the bookdetails table
in the database each seperated by "$" sign. Bookmarks.dlf also has
all the information stored in boomarks table in the database each
seperated by "$" sign.
help.php: Link is available in the menubar of every page. Basic instructions
and keyboard shortcuts are included in this file
home.php: This is the main file. Books will be played in this page only.
It uses many functions of functionality.js javascript file and assumes 
there is a navigation.dlf file in the book requested. Also has the 
book library and mybooks library. 
index.php: Checks if the user is logged in or not, if not will ask 
for the user to login. Also has the link to signup.php. Uses AJAX,
JAVASCRIPT.. User must enable javascript for this page to work as
desired.
log.php: Called using AJAX. Sends two values as post data, one is
message and the other one is username. Based on the username, it
creates a log file, if it doesn't exist and stores all the info
in that file.
logout.php: This file is called whenever the user presses on the
logout button available on all the pages. Deletes the session variables
and cookies.
search.php: Asks for a query can be author name, bookname, language or 
publisher. Sends the data to search_model.php where it gets processed
and recieves a result set from that file which is displayed as a
table here.
signup.php: Checks if the user is aleary logged in. If already logged
in, it redirects to home.php. Else it asks for some information such 
as username, email, password. Username and email must be unique. Checks
the database using AJAX. If the entered values are already existing in 
the database then raises error and ask for different values.

Model:
home_model.php: Contains three functions named showBookmarks, showallbooks
and showmybooks which gathers the data from the database and returns 
the result set to the view part.
addBooks_model.php: This is called by an AJAX function which sends some
post data such as bookname, userid. This file inserts these values into
the databases.
bookmark_model.php: Same as addbooks_model.php
feedback_model.php: Same as addbooks_model.php
login_model.php: This file is being called by an AJAX function in 
index.php which sends the username and password entered. Matches
the information in the databases and if any result matches sends 
success else returns failure
searchResults_model.php: Files is being called by search.php which
sends the query processes the query and send back the result by 
encoding it in the url.
signup_model.php: Being called by signup.php. If the entered values
are all valid, then inserts the value into the database else returns
false.
